with  a video like this the question is going to start up at the head
dealing  with broad abstract questions and generalizations and were away down the grass roots examples
or  agonista with some tangible real world rascal
that  move my way up
to  the big idee let's start in the bottom
in  the history of india one of the horse things for new students understand politically
that  imperialism is older than nan
indian  nationalism the sense of nationalism emerging india very much
in  response to in reaction against the british empire and to some extent also it
was  fostered by or created by the
one  of the most in obwalden examples that we have to encounter are
the  early writings of mohandas gandhi you might know him better as mahogany remembered
now  as amende leader in india also very very eccentric religiously
so  on and so
guess  what as soon as you start to study this an university context
seeing  that the early career of gundy was being
we  worship
the  british empire was in part a success
a  failure but both its successes and its failures relied
on  communities like that of god himself communities of second
class  citizens third class is
fourth  quite
boarding  that
for  he didn't for that
advocating  for their own right to join the army and fight for that empire that's exactly what
mamondago  did come back to one that one second despite the fact that this was an empire
that  nakedly brazenly and openly
served  a small elite of wealthy white people in england those
were  the first as citizens those whom the ultimate beneficiaries who conquered india the
irish  the irish
the  lot of the hardest voting crack troops in india were the irish rage
who  signed up to fight for the british empire were the irish proudish no they they hated
the  english they bitterly hated and resented the english for coming and conquering their country and incorporated
in  the empire and then guess what they signed up to conquer other people's countries of the after bridge
why  did mohandas god moved so that for
africa  he was maybe a third class citizen as a brown skin person
from  india
and  there were four questions meanly
the  black of native inhabitants the indicates population of south africa he was
keenly  aware of the rights and privileges that indian immigrants had in so the africa the briery
thought  to improve those privileges he did not advocate for the black people he didn't try to help
the  black people of whose hafrica
one  of the main causes he fought for politically was to try to get
indians  people were ethnically from india the legal right to volunteer for
and  participate in wars fighting a bath of the british empire
a  similar kind of pattern i mean i don't know what easier for people to relate to the colonized irish
or  the colonizing the indians they're both really extreme hey england came and conquered your country
the  british empire came in subsumed and dominated the humiliated india india's
lost  its independence even the before was
all
now  what are you going to do you want a sign up and fight for the british empire and to africa and
fight  a contrasting else his step or so they also can be seen classed their custody
know  this empire isn't working to make you rich or you wealthy you know it's not even working to help
say  a lit in your own country you'll not like it helping some
king  or emperor in india whose somehow ethnically let your seven speaks to the same first
language  as you
no  not at all then yet people
people  were really successfully co opted by this empire so that to day
is  very very difficult for people to relate to
so  alien to us that i think history has become incomprehensible
the  politics of the past have become mystified by the politics of the present to day
any  time people talk about imperialism or empire it's always talked about as if it's a dirty
sea
somehow  covertly and secretly what the united states america was doing
in  vietnam was imperialism and this is like an insult or reproach against
the  united states to talk about american imperialism vina none for most of the
world's  history definitely up to the inter war years the years in between
wonder
empire  was not a dirty word imperialism was an ideology openly
propounded  and
and  it was an ideology that conquered peoples themselves
a  sort of pride of place in even if it was pathetic they took pride
in  it
you  don't have to take someone else's opinion about god you can read his own words he
published  exactly what he thought exactly what he felt in his own eye you can decide if god
be  was insane or not but i mean he represents that kind of community i tell im ethnically
jewish
what
there  were jewish people
eagerly  joined the british empire and so the rica there were jewish people who
would  have jewish community in south africa where again they were may be
like  third class city
they  were treated better than the blacks but worse than these other people totally races piety
and  empire that is itself
illiterate  led by you know these christian
ones  back in england they were proud to go to so after there were jews of course who were proud to come here right now
in  toronto canada just down the road from king usertesen to market
ensnared  his use of the way there's an old old synagogue here from one of the first jewish community again there were
jewish  committees a came here and again they didn't give a suckable indigenous people they
weren't  here it advocating for they weren't it wasn't jewish lawyers fighting for the rights
of  native canadians it wasn't jewish lawyers and so the african here
in  some ways it's terrible and tragic and bizarre but these are people who are themselves colonized
or  resignation the empire who got involved the ideology the empire and they thought
fred  not against it for most of the
you  have a historical context
imperialism
a  big idea
nationalism  is a small idea or a series
small  ideas within it
there's  irish national
in  the nationalism and yes yes you all there's canadian to
smaller  smaller circles in our van diagram within the big idea of
empire  so obviously you may sauntering really positive view of imperialist
fundamentally  empire as it was to genocide it was about conquering and killing people and taking their land
this  is the very simple
and  by the way a great illustration of that really brief
you  gain empire used to be over it wasn't
when  the british conquered men more
apologize
you  know it wasn't it was a secret
they  didn't call it me and more and they didn't cut burma the original
name  the british put on the map he can still see maps that say this when they conquered when they and
no  they call it further india
why  he's a year well well ready conquered india and then an
there's  more india
for  there and that was really how they saw the world they saw the world as a competition
to  extend their demand to extend their reparations and again the positive element
is
could  include other groups in the
in  left wing parlins there often called comprador
comprador  elite i wish you had a better word angoutin the sense that the groups of
people  who made the compromise
fighting  for the empire will hang with the empire whether that was as a lawyer like god
or  whether that was as a soldier or whether as a banker or in some other capacity there were a lot of people who
wanted  to sign up to play
more  privileged rolls within the genuinely multien
but  genuinely unequal agitation in
those  in impertinences and by the way the ultimate objective of the british empire is
another  idea of drenthe videos was not to conquer the whole world
it  was based on the most fundamental assumption of european political science
the  years war in the
nobody  studies the seventeenth century involved
start
fundamental  assumption was that what was best for europe was best for the world
was  at unquote the balance of
was  to have the british and the french and the spanish
eating  with each other in the caribbean that no one european empire should control the whole of the caribbean
so  islands would be french some
portuguese  some british and they'd all
idiot  and that's not the chinese mentality
the  chinese mentality as ye have one army controlling it then you don't
war  said no and the european idea included
constant  war constant piracy constant slavery and mutual looting and constant wars
the
that  was the hat was the contentment that was in it the british wanted to control the whole world they
were  guarded the process of imperialism as a balance of powers
for
what's  clear here is you have the emergence
of  national
a  context
different  communities are included in and subsumed by an
empire  is an idea that even though races
include  the jewish community and so the africa can include in the inhuman murad et cetera
it  is not to its genocide it is not entirely
or  purely for
there  was actually a really interesting debate and the founding days the british empire
as  when they were first taking
was  the objective of the british
england  every
and  the early advocates of making england everywhere as a pole
their  idea was that they would literally reproduce the anglican church in india and actually
felt
they  would actually create a british aristocracy and landholders and
they  would recreate
feudalism  in
that  would really
a  very simple linear extension of british
and  then the counter argument was no
what  emerged instead was this very peculiar dynamic
and  fundamentally cap
capitalism
much  earlier
that
the  questions that mauling me to
on  the one in one emphasis
situation  in many places around
where  nationalism
also
paradoxically  nationalism is less inclusive
he  talks but conditional is really first she talks about a period kind of
you  can even say from eighteen twelve
he  talks about period were one ruling idea of
is  actually of being ethnically british ethnically
united  empire loyalists
the
monarchy  the british
anti  american and anti
now  again
kind  of linear simplicity to that that's like making
that's  some of nationalism he mentioned very rarely was always very weak and
was  never a pathos the furrow
so  how does the jewish community here in terrenate or in montreal fit in
how  is the frank open community in this is canada for most astute
teetering  on the edge
how  do catholic people from ireland
it's  incredibly weak
simple  racist british center notion of nationalism again you could
say  eighteen twelve to nineteen two
for  you know
british  empire up to the british empire's role in world war
where  you want to cut that off i don't
that  idea never really took
in  a sense it's almost like the weakness
the  empire model and it was something that could galvanize an the united canada and it also
this  is what genius approaches her strong
it  also
presents  a completely incoherent anti americanism the main virtue
of  presents of being canadian is that you somehow refuse to do
better  than a
sally  just becase
a  really weakening coherent theology that in this
had  no
it  never was that powerful
couldn't  participate
could  participate in it the same way handsome
this  painter sonatas
now  what molasses which i think is very strong but he skips over the second ideal on top
the  thing is completely true and accurate appraisal of how what emerged
in  the years after that he doesn't in down there
stead  and ideal of canadian national
was  simultaneously anti air
were  the ideal was canada was the country that had gone control and free health care
and  cheap university tuition
and  the national tentanda rejecting american
wrapped  up in
skip  over i think are the crucial steps of world war in world war two
and  we could cut this video short by just pointing to the
you  have no idea
how  much canadian identity
created  as we experience it today canadian natural was created by the shadow of the vidame
what  it meant to be canadian
opposed  to the to the american empire
to  the roses american
no  it's too simple to that created it again even world war one at an important
we  war a master there's no way to exaggerate the
and  remember a lot of people who fought in world war two
were  alive one world war one
they  were kids the empery
there  were some people who were life rolled three of those things there were many of the leading anti war protests
at  the start of the vietnam were elderly people who remembered world war one and the anti world
war  one protest
she  had people who were life with that whole sequence of
in  terms of the people who are still alive today obviously
mostly  the shadow of the vie
i  could make a much longer video i think lingard war ii how those absolutely
canadian  national
canadian  anti americanism which overlaps of canadian national and now ninety
to  be a canadian at
why  it is that those things are a
call  not with the right wing and conservative ideas but actually with left of center it
what  makes us can
i
a  fundamental absurdity of every form of
it  were
is  that it opposes
i  was very
put  that
a  fundamental contradiction it's fun
if  you are a japanese to
inevitably  you have to adopt a mentality that your part
japanese  culture and the japanese nation
just  for an inlet
japan  case
what
which
but  also against progress because whatever is new by definition
is  not part of your idea of japanese nationalism even if your idea of japanese nationalism is is
an  idea as recently minted as the nineteen it
may  not go back years or a thousand
there  is a resistance to change the
the
tragedy
of  canadian national
of  course that is built on this unbelievably weak
the  candidate is
another  genocide british empire calling
extent  imperialism had the advantage of being cosmopolitan
if  you really believe or just participated in the british empire
participation  in the british empire linked to you to india it link you to the caribbean
on  edulis is the reason why we have a sugar factory here in toronto was because the british empire
linked  the sugar cane a production
in  jamaica to the sugar industry canada there was boats went from the british empire
the  british empire of linked canada obviously to england and australia but also to these
places  we tend to forget about like the importance of the bisharein the caribbean it linked you to a broader
world  of ideas and educated
and  yet other languages and other niceties that were not treated equally
interact  with another to some extent it was an abject slavery and outright
genocide  as tragically it was for the indigenous people of
people  of australian soon there was a very unequal set of privileges
for  the participants of the people who are the
for  a country like canada to have national
by  definition
commit  to cutting yourself off from
american  in
it's  a country so low from that again if japan cuts itself off from
korea  and china
what  other influences you pan open
you  know that that's really about it for japan what can a man
of  gave really make meaningful influence coming from new zealand i doubt it by the way look
at  a map new zealand is really far from japan
that  those of the isola
a  canadian nationalism
again  even if it's not as racist as it used to be the old british
empire  loyalist mentality
fundamentally  this is about anti
then  you are led into a woman so what
greenland
what  else is there what other kind of cause of pauline
so  and this idea with the kind of war
we  live in a world where these things are changing
donald  trump and bernie and
are  fundamentally opposed to global ization and
both  of them are trying to end trade with china
free  trade as we've known it for a
if  that happens the meaning of cause botanist
fundamentally
england  is leaving the european union
the  very real prospect that england will now pursue a much different kind of relationship
with  both canada and australia whether or not that underpainted agreement like kansu
through  french in agreement that would make it possible for someone
university  in
on  a conical basis by
there  is the real possibility of a revival
british  commonwealth system
a  revival of some elements
the  british
different  countries that are now all democracies and speak
in  the shadow of the british empire there were reasons that
the  sense in which the cultural geography of the
may  again be
i  think the question we have to ask ourselves as canadians
he  and we forgive the american
for  the disaster in vietnam
we  forgive the africans for the disaster in iraq
answer  is no
future  of canada
be  a perpetual picket line
the  future of canada cannot be a perpetual
not  be that our politics
perpetual  and ongoing state of
the  aspects of american perils
feel  in